>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's quickly take
a look at the anatomy of a Python program.
Let me open that in VS Code.
You're not necessarily gonna understand
this code right now and that's fine.
This is what we're going to build
towards in our final exercise, so
just quickly take you through it.
We're gonna use the GitHub search API
to search for popular repositories
based on the language that they're
written in, and the number of stars.
So, this is a method called
createQuery that helps us build
the query string that we're gonna
pass into the GitHub search API.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
let's start from the bottom here.
This is our main method.
The languages that we're gonna search for
are Python, JavaScript, and Ruby.
And we're gonna call this
repos with most stars method,
passing our languages, and
get that back as a results variable.
Then we're gonna loop
through every result, and
print out the name of the repo, the
language, and how many stars that it has.
And let's look at this
repos_with_most_stars.
The nice thing about VS Code and
the Python extension is if you
mouse over this method,
repos_with_most_stars, and
you Ctrl+click on it,
it'll take you right there.
So this repos_with_most_stars method,
it takes a list of languages.
It takes a default sort, for
this program it's gonna be stars.
And then it takes the order that it's
gonna sort in, which is descending.
We're gonna create our query,
the create_query method we saw above.
We're gonna define some parameters
that we want to be part of our URL.
And then we're gonna pass in the query and
the parameters as part of a request,
using the request library.
We're gonna get back a response
that has a status code.
And we're gonna do a little
bit of checking here.
So, we're using the unauthenticated
GitHub search endpoint here.
If the status code was not 200,
that means some type of error occurred, so
we're gonna raise an exception and
quit our program.
Otherwise, we're going to get
the JSON from the response.
We're going to get the items
key from that JSON, and
then we're gonna return
all of our records.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
pretty exciting, right?
I'm gonna quickly run this program, and
I don't assume any of you to have it open,
we'll get there.
So in VS Code,
if I want to run the program,
I'd open my command palette,
Cmd + Shift + P or Ctrl + Shift+ P.
Type Python to narrow it down,
and then I'll just select
Run Python File in Terminal,
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
here we go, here's my results.
So, the other interesting thing
about this GitHub search API,
it doesn't always return
all of their results,
it kind of returns the first few
that it finds before it times out.
So, based on this query,
we have freeCodeCamp,
which is a JavaScript
repository with 300,000 stars,
Bootstrap, Vue, React, etc.
A Python repo here, awesome Python,
and a few other things.
Pretty cool, right?
Quick and easy.